I have less than 8 seconds to get your
attention in fact right now you're
probably hovering your thumb over your
phone screen or you have a finger on the
mouse of your computer wondering if
you're going to click off onto one of
the other videos that YouTube is
suggesting for you CU you don't know if
this is going to be worth your time or
not but stop you are on the Right video
because in the next few minutes I am
going to show you four ways to hook your
audience from the first few sentences
that you say when giving a speech and
later in the video I am going to prove
to you why this is true you're not just
going to take my word for it I am going
to show you a conversation with the 2015
world champion of public speaking who
talks a little bit about the power of
introductions but before I get to those
four tips of how you can hook your
audience with an introduction I want to
share two things that you should not do
when giving a speech now I see this so
often especially at weddings when you
walk in front of the the crowd and you
take a microphone if you're speaking
with a microphone avoid doing this Hello
whoa whoa that was that was really loud
so many people when they first take a
microphone and they start talking
they're Ching up because they hear their
voice very loud almost as if it's a
surprise friends it's a microphone it's
supposed to make your voice loud my
suggestion here is if you have the
opportunity beforehand to do a mic test
or say a few words holding a microphone
you can get that shock value out because
you will hear your voice being Amplified
in a big way but even if you don't have
an opportunity to speak with the mic at
an event where there is a microphone
included don't be surprised when you
hear your voice really loud that is the
whole purpose of a microphone but I
can't tell you how many times I've seen
people start speeches that way and it
comes across as very amateur the second
thing to avoid doing when begin a speech
is to Simply start with introducing
yourself hi everyone for those who don't
know me my name is Wade and I'm the best
man of this wedding and I'm excited to
tell you about my friend Jared people
know you're the best man if there was an
MC that person probably already
introduced you as the best man there may
even be programs on the tables that have
your name as best man and the fact
you're going to give a speech but even
if this isn't a wedding any sort of
function you don't have to start your
speech with an introduction simply
saying your name talking about why you
are there if it's absolutely necessary
you include that information which I bet
you it's not but if it is you can
include that later on remember people's
attention spans are very short you only
have a small window to grab their
attention so rather than waste that
first few precious seconds introduce ing
yourself with a pretty generic
introduction capture their attention in
a big way so how do you capture the
audien's attention in a big way well I'm
going to give you four specific ideas
and each of these is incredibly powerful
if you deploy it in your next speech the
first way you can have a powerful
introduction and set your speech Head
and Shoulders above most others is by
hitting them with a powerful statistic
the average human atten span is 8
seconds 80% of videos on social media
are viewed without the sound on only
133% of employees say that they actually
feel engaged at the workplace each of
these statistics is powerful they are
surprising and they set the tone for
what your speech is going to be about
but you've caught the audience's
attention right away with something that
makes them think it also disrupts the
norm as I mentioned what most amateurs
speakers do is come up to the stage and
introduce themsel have some sort of
formality or awkward banter about why
they're there you don't need to do that
you can jump straight into the speech
and have a statistic that draws the
audience in and then you continue your
speech which adds additional context to
frame that and make it all joined
together a couple of things worth
mentioning if you are using statistics
these may be obvious but ensure that you
can back up your statistic that you know
the source of the data where that's
coming from and that it's not some
random website online that there's
actually multiple sources that back up
what you're saying because you may be
challenged on that stat afterward
because it's the first thing you started
your speech with and the second is that
the statistic should actually be related
to what you're talking about so it's
great to say the average human has an
8-second attention span but if you're
then talking about a sport sport like
football or Golf and it doesn't really
relate at all to that original statement
it was pointless and disjointed and it's
not going to have that cohesiveness
another way to hook the audience right
from the beginning of a speech is to ask
a thought-provoking question are you
happy what does success mean to you if
you could travel anywhere in the world
where would you go questions like this
are powerful because they don't just
disrupt the norm and give an audience
some variety or a unique speech to
listen to but they get the audience's
brains Thinking by asking a question you
are asking the audience to participate
mentally in the speech and right from
the get-go if they start that thinking
process they are much more likely to
stay engaged throughout the rest of the
presentation but as mentioned before
it's incredibly important to make sure
that this question relates to what the
rest of the speech is about you can ask
a fun thought thought-provoking question
but if it has nothing to do with the
presentation you've put forward there's
that disjointedness and it's not going
to go over well another powerful speech
introduction is telling a story
storytelling is one of the most powerful
tools we have as public speakers because
they draw audiences in they invoke
imagination they allow our audience to
tap into their creativity and to
visualize what we are saying but many
stories come Midway through speeches and
I say why not start with a story right
off the get-go there's a couple reasons
this is powerful first off when you
start speaking you typically have the
undivided attention of your audience
people have started clapping they're
waiting for you to say something and if
you dive right into a story you will
have more people's ears and eyes on you
than if you're 20 minutes into a speech
and that's when you start telling the
story of course the story should be
related to the greater speech but by
starting that off and especially if your
story is humorous and it's going to get
some laughter from the audience that is
powerful because if the audience finds
themselves laughing within the first few
seconds or minutes of your speech they
are going to relax they're going to
think this is going to be an interesting
speech I can't wait for the rest of it
and you are going to get a lot of
confidence when you hear the audience
laughing in the first few minutes it's
this instant boost of confidence for you
on stage and that's going to help you
throughout the rest of the speech my
final idea for a powerful way to start a
speech is by doing something unique my
favorite speech introduction is by Sarah
Kay and her Ted Talk if I should have a
daughter Sarah comes out in front of the
audience and she begins telling a poem
the poem lasts 3 minutes and 30 seconds
and as soon as she says the final word
of the poem the entire audience stands
up gives her a standing ovation I'm
going to link to Sarah's speech within
this video do yourself a favor and check
it out even just watch the first four
minutes the introduction and you will
get chills you will know what I mean in
the sense that this is a powerful way to
grab the audience's attention but what
you may also notice is that this
approach it's a little bit highrisk
reward you see for 3 minutes and 30
seconds the audience is quiet and Sarah
takes them on the journey through her
poem but there's this tension that's
built up because it's such an unusual
introduction to a speech that you can
sense the audience early on wondering
what is this going to be about is this
going to be interesting is this poem
going to be good where is this going how
long is it going to be she creates this
bit of tension and then she delivers she
knocks it out of the park the poem is
beautiful it's so well presented it's
Flawless and that's what caused the
entire audience to stand up and give her
that incredibly well-deserved Ovation
but again highrisk High reward but Sarah
did something unique I'm lucky enough to
attend my local Toast Masters Club with
my father-in-law and he did something
pretty original and unique the last time
he delivered a speech he came up to the
the front of the room and the audience
was clapping for him and when they
stopped he encouraged them to keep
clapping and the Toast Masters Club
continued to clap but they were kind of
wondering like what what's going on I
mean is this guy just a complete
narcissist that he wants us to keep
clapping for him but after that second
round of applause was completed he said
that is for mothers and he continued to
give a speech about his mom and his
experience
growing up and how powerful his mother's
love was and it was a powerful
introduction he created that little bit
of tension he did something unique to
start a speech with a powerful
introduction and it resulted in the
audience paying attention throughout his
entire speech so even if you're not a
poet there is creative ways to do
something unique perhaps you could sing
a song that is something people are not
used to perhaps you could freestyle rap
perhaps you could do a magic trick I
don't know what your skill set is but
there are many ways to capture the
audience's attention but what I want to
challenge you to do is take the
opportunity when you get to the front of
the audience and you are about to start
your speech avoid the typical boring
introduction try something that's out
there and I hope that a lot of these
tips resonate with you but I don't just
want you to take my word for it earlier
in the video video I mentioned that I
had the chance to chat with the 2015
world champion of public speaking
Muhammad katani and in this clip I'm
going to watch it with you Muhammad
talks about the power of introductions
and why they're so essential to starting
your speech the right way if you ask
yourself or ask anyone of the listeners
how many presentation you've been
through or how many speeches youve
attended a lot hundreds right and if you
go through all of them you will notice
that they will they all start the same
way hi my name is so and so and today
I'll be speaking about this and that you
know the same introduction that we all
got used to problem with that is because
you got used to it your pro your brain
already
skips before you even introduce who you
are you need to grab the attention of
the audience first there you have it a
Toast Masters champion agreeing with
with this concept that you need to grab
your audience's attention right from the
start a final final bonus tip for you is
when it comes to conclusions because I
think one of the most powerful ways to
end any speech is by coming full circle
and I think it's so powerful if you
mention what was discussed in the intro
as part of your outro as well the
introduction and then the conclusion for
example if you set a powerful stat at
the beginning toward the end of your
speech repeat that same statistic but
now you have the context of the full
speech and you can Summit up with a nice
conclusion of whatever you've just
taught your audience and you can do this
with the story you can take a line from
that story repeat it toward the end you
can do this with the question if you
started your speech with a question you
can repeat that question at the end or
even with the unusual powerful
introduction something unique so if it
was poetry you could end with a line of
poetry as well but making your speech
come full circle is one of the best ways
to come across as a complete Pro I hope
this video has helped you generate some
great ideas of how you can take future
speeches to the next level by
introducing powerful introductions and
hooking the audience right from the
beginning if this is your first time
lining on my channel thank you for
taking the time to watch this video
please subscribe to this channel Channel
and check out some of the other video
content I have and if you're looking to
improve your public speaking skills and
you want to hire me as a one-on-one
coach I'm open to it send me an email
the email information is in the YouTube
show notes but once again thank you so
much for watching this video I'll catch
you on the next one